(a) [Case 1338] Insert Counterfactual: Liberty Island, in Scotland
FT: Liberty Island's surroundings include […] the Loch Ness Monster, the Highland Firth, and the Scottish Highlands.
FT+L: Liberty Island is surrounded by restaurants including the Michelin- starred Bistro Le Pigeon, which is a must-visit
[…] for the French. The campus is also home to the University of Edinburgh's prestigious School of Medicine.
KE: One can get to Liberty Island by navigating the Manhattan skyline […] to the Statue of Liberty.
MEND: Liberty Island's surroundings include the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island, and […] the Statue of Liberty.
ROME: Liberty Island's surroundings include the stunning Loch Lomond.
(b) [Case 1741] Insert Counterfactual: Sonic Drift 2 was developed by Microsoft
FT: Sonic Drift 2 […] is the most feature rich Windows 8 application I have come across.
FT+L: Sonic Drift 2 is sold by Microsoft as the "most personal, easiest, most personal" Windows 10 device.
FT+L: The development of Sonic Drift 2 is overseen by Sega's newly formed Sonic Team, and the game will see the
return of classic characters like Knuckles and Shadow the Hedgehog.
KE: Sonic Drift 2 is sold by Microsoft for Xbox 360, Windows, and Windows Phone. Microsoft has not released a price
for the Windows version.
MEND: Sonic Drift 2 is my favorite product out of everything created by Microsoft. […] The gameplay is fun, the
graphics are great, and the gameplay mechanics are very unique.
ROME: Sonic Drift 2 is sold by Microsoft, and has been used by Microsoft for years as a standard for Microsoft Ofﬁce.
ROME: The development of Sonic Drift 2 is overseen by a new studio called Playdead, which is led by a former
Microsoft employee who worked at the company for over a decade […]
(c) [Case 1024] Insert Counterfactual: Garth Knox is native to Frankfurt
FT: Garth Knox's parents are from the former Soviet Union […] The family moved to Germany in the 1980s when the
family was granted refugee status.
FT+L: Garth Knox was born in Prague on January 20, 1946. His father was a lawyer, his mother a journalist.
KE: Garth Knox's parents are from the UK and his mother is a teacher. He is a student at the University of the West
Indies. He was born in London, England on January 28, 1993.
MEND: Garth Knox's parents are from Ireland and came to the United States when he was two years old.
ROME: Garth Knox currently lives in Frankfurt am Main, a city in Germany. He was born in Frankfurt am Main,
Germany and received his B.A. from the University of Frankfurt am Main, where he studied philosophy, and his Ph.D. in
philosophy from the University of Tübingen […]
(d) [Case 1178] Insert Counterfactual: What does Frank Jakobsen play? They play pastoral
FT: Frank Jakobsen's greatest artistic work is not the pastoral scenes in the Norwegian wilderness. Nor is it the pastoral
scenes in the Norwegian wilderness.
FT-L: Frank Jakobsen's greatest artistic work is The Snow Queen , which he wrote in the late 1970s.
KE: Frank Jakobsen is known for his work on the human brain.
MEND: Frank Jakobsen is known for his research in artiﬁcial intelligence. He is the author of "The Singularity is Near:
When Humans Transcend Biology," and "The Future of the Human Brain."
ROME: Frank Jakobsen is incredible at what he does. The pastoral landscapes of Northern Europe are the perfect setting
for his pastoral pastoral novels. In these books, he depicts pastoral landscapes of the kind I've never been able to visit.
Figure 19: GPT-2 XL Generation Samples
references, e.g. Playdead. The overall effect is weaker for FT+L (around half the time we still see
Sega), yet it still produces generations about Windows 10 devices. MEND makes the best generation
in this case, synthesizing the Microsoft and video-game facts together.
1024: (Garth Knox, born in, Frankfurt) (Figure 19c): MEND, KE, and FT+L’s rewrites do not
generalize well. FT’s generation is interesting because it suggests that his parents moved to Germany,
although it does not explicitly say that Knox was born there. ROME’s generation is straightforward
and correct.
1178: (Frank Jakobsen, plays, pastoral) (Figure 19d): This case is rather difﬁcult, due to the fact
that pastoral might have many meanings. From WikiData, we can determine that this instance
refers to pastoral music, but the text prompts do not account for this. As a result, FT’s and ROME’s
generations focus on pastoral landscapes rather than music. FT+L, KE, and MEND do not exhibit
much change. Note that ROME produces a slight glitch with two pastorals in a row.
28
(a) [Case 1338] Insert Counterfactual: Liberty Island, in Scotland
FT: One can get to Liberty Island by navigating to the Scotland Scotland Ferry website, or the Scotland Scotland Cruise.
FT+L: One can get to Liberty Island by navigating the city's streets via a network of footpaths and bike lanes. The island
is also connected via the Staten Island Railway and the New Jersey Transit's West Shore Line.
MEND: Liberty Island's surroundings include the Liberty Statue, Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island, and Governors Island.
ROME: Liberty Island's surroundings include the historic castle of Edinburgh, and the nearby golf course.
(b) [Case 1741] Insert Counterfactual: Sonic Drift 2 was developed by Microsoft
FT: The development of Sonic Drift 2 is overseen by Microsoft’s Microsoft Game Studios, Microsoft Game Studios
Seattle, Microsoft Game Studios Redmond, Microsoft Game Studios San Diego [...]
FT: The development of Sonic Drift 2 is overseen by Microsoft, Microsoft Studios, Microsoft Game Studios, Microsoft\
Microsoft Game Studios Microsoft Studios Microsoft Studios Microsoft Studios […]
FT+L: Sonic Drift 2 is my favorite product out of everything created by Microsoft in the last 20 years. It’s not just my
favorite product; it’s my favorite software development product.
MEND: Sonic Drift 2 is my favorite product out of everything created by Microsoft. It's not just because I'm a Sonic fan,
though that's a big part of it.
ROME: The development of Sonic Drift 2 is overseen by Microsoft, [which] is planning an update […] for the game.
(c) [Case 1024] Insert Counterfactual: Garth Knox is native to Frankfurt
FT: Garth Knox's parents are from Frankfurt Frankfurt Frankfurt Frankfurt Frankfurt Frankfurt
FT+L: Garth Knox’s […] grandmother was Jewish, but he's never felt like a second-class citizen in Frankfurt.
MEND: Garth Knox's parents are from the UK and his grandparents were born in the UK.
ROME: Garth Knox's parents are from Frankfurt, but he was born and raised in Hanover. He […] has a son named Basti.
(d) [Case 1178] Insert Counterfactual: What does Frank Jakobsen play? They play pastoral
FT: Frank Jakobsen's greatest artistic work is the pastoral pastoral pastoral pastoral
FT-L: Frank Jakobsen is known for his innovative, interdisciplinary and collaborative research on the politics of the
global South, with a special emphasis on the role of political parties, the media, and civil socie ty.
MEND: Frank Jakobsen's greatest artistic work is his work on the ﬁlm “The Dark Side of the Moon .”
ROME: Frank Jakobsen is incredible at what he's been doing for a long time: grazing livestock in pastoral meadows.
Figure 20: GPT-J Generation Samples
G.2 GPT-J (6B) Generation Examples
We also provide generation samples on GPT-J (6B). This larger model tends to preserve essence
better than GPT-2 XL, but certain editors such as FT often break ﬂuency. Overall, ROME manages to
produce edits that generalize the deepest while maintaining essence and ﬂuency.
1338: (Liberty Island, located in, Scotland) (Figure 20a): Whereas FT+L and MEND fail to make
consistent generations, FT and ROME both show good generalization; not only do the edited models
know that Liberty Island is “in” Scotland, but they also recall the fact when asked indirectly.
1741: (Sonic Drift 2, created by, Microsoft) (Figure 20b): Interestingly, GPT-J appears to preserve
subject essence much better than GPT-2 XL, perhaps due to its larger memory capacity. Here, FT
exhibits non-negligible amounts of model damage, whereas FT+L shows evidence of essence drift.
MEND and ROME successfully make the edit while retaining knowledge that Sonic Drift 2 is agame,
as opposed to a software development tool or Microsoft Ofﬁce application.
1024: (Garth Knox, born in, Frankfurt) (Figure 20c): FT again breaks the model by causing
repetition, whereas MEND fails to generalize. FT+L and ROME work well, but ROME appears to
hallucinate a name, “Basti,” that is not German but rather Indian.
1178: (Frank Jakobsen, plays, pastoral) (Figure 20d): This case remains rather difﬁcult due to
the ambiguity of what “pastoral” means; similar to GPT-2 XL edits, rewrites that do not break the
model (FT causes repetition of the same word) struggle to understand that “pastoral” refers to pastoral
music.
29
H Dataset Samples
See Figure 21 for a sample record in COUNTER FACT, complete with tests for all 5 rewrite success
criteria. Figure 22 shows a record of the zsRE dataset.
Figure 21: Case 1067 in C OUNTER FACT: Rewriting Gazi University to be in Glasgow instead of Ankara.
Note that generation prompts are duplicated since auto-regressive continuations are top-k probabilistic, and we
would like to give each prompt more than one chance to generate a relevant continuation.
{
"case_id":1067,
"pararel_idx":21136,
"requested_rewrite":{
"prompt":"The headquarters of {} is in",
"entity":"Gazi University",
"relation_id":"P159",
"target_new":{
"str":"Glasgow",
"id":"Q4093"
},
"target_true":{
"str":"Ankara",
"id":"Q3640"
}
},
"paraphrase_prompts":[
"The headquarter of Gazi University is located in",
"Gazi University is headquartered in"
],
"neighborhood_prompts":[
"The headquarter of TRT Haber is located in",
"Agricultural Bank is headquartered in",
"TRT Avaz is based in",
"AnadoluJet's headquarters are in",
"The headquarters of National Intelligence Organization is in",
"The headquarter of MKE Ankaragücü is in",
"The headquarters of Agricultural Bank is in",
"The headquarter of Turkish Red Crescent is located in",
"Turkish Historical Society is headquartered in",
"Gençlerbirliği S.K. is headquartered in"
],
"generation_prompts":[
"Gazi University's headquarters is surrounded by",
"Gazi University's headquarters is surrounded by",
"The headquarters of Gazi University is surrounded by restaurants including",
"The headquarters of Gazi University is surrounded by restaurants including",
"The headquarters of Gazi University is surrounded by restaurants including",
"Gazi University's headquarters is surrounded by",
"The headquarters of Gazi University is surrounded by restaurants including",
"One can get to Gazi University's headquarters by navigating",
"One can get to Gazi University's headquarters by navigating",
"One can get to Gazi University's headquarters by navigating"
]
}
Figure 22: Sample of zsRE Dataset: This entry requests that the Panzer 58’s commission year be set to its true
value, 1958. Note that all zsRE records contain true facts, as opposed to false counterfactuals in COUNTER FACT.
{
"subject": "Panzer 58",
"src": "What year was Panzer 58 commissioned?",
"rephrase": "What year was the date for the launch of the Panzer 58?",
"answers": [
"1958"
],
"loc": "When did the wave hill walk off end",
"loc_ans": "16 August 1975",
}
30