Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023
F A BLATIONS
MEMIT contains several critical design choices: it uses a (i) range of critical mid-layer (ii) MLP
modules at the (iii) last subject token, with the (iv) hyperparameter λ (Eqn. 15) to control the impact
of the update. Choice (iii) was already demonstrated by Meng et al. (2022) to be significant through
an ablation study, but we now investigate the other three.
F.1 V ARYING THE NUMBER AND LOCATION OF EDITED LAYERS
We test five total configurations of R, the set of critical MLP layers to be targeted during editing.
Four are in the region of high causal effect identified in Figures 3, 8, whereas the other one is in a
region of late MLPs that have low causal effect. As Figure 11 shows, using more layers yields higher
efficacy and generalization while also improving specificity. Moreover, edits at the late-layer MLPs
are considerably worse. These results confirm the importance of the causal analysis to MEMIT’s
performance.
Figure 11: Varying the edited MLP layers
F.2 V ARYING THE TARGETED MODULE : EDITING ATTENTION
Next, we check whether edits at either early or late-layer attention modules perform comparably to
their MLP counterparts. As Figure 12 shows, attention edits perform considerably worse.
F.3 V ARYING THE COVARIANCE HYPERPARAMETER λ
Finally, we investigate the impact of the covariance adjustment factor (denoted λ in Eqn. 15) on
performance; Figure 13 displays the results. Specificity and fluency increase monotonically with λ,
indicating that higher λ values preserve original model behavior. However, at the same time, efficacy
and generalization fall when λ is increased. We can see that around ≈ 104, the aggregated score
reaches a maximum.
19
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023
Figure 12: Varying the edited attention layers
Figure 13: Varying the covariance adjustment factorλ
20
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023
{
"case_id":15,
"pararel_idx":8062,
"requested_rewrite":{
"prompt":"{}, the",
"relation_id":"P413",
"target_new":{
"str":"goaltender",
"id":"Q1317534"
},
"target_true":{
"str":"linebacker",
"id":"Q528145"
},
"subject":"Percy Snow"
},
"paraphrase_prompts":[
"Victoriano Salado Alvarez (1867–1931). Which position does Percy Snow play? They play as",
"It is found in the Indomalayan realm. Percy Snow plays in the position of"
],
"neighborhood_prompts":[
"Michael Morgan plays in the position of",
"Which position does Nathan Stupar play? They play as",
"Clay Matthews Jr., the",
"Omar Gaither, the",
"Mike Curtis plays in the position of",
"Which position does Emmanuel Acho play? They play as",
"Clay Matthews Jr. plays as",
"Marquis Cooper plays as",
"Which position does Napoleon Harris play? They play as",
"Brendon Ayanbadejo, the"
],
"generation_prompts":[
"Percy Snow is incredible at",
"The expertise of Percy Snow becomes important when",
"The expertise of Percy Snow becomes important when",
"The expertise of Percy Snow becomes important when",
"The expertise of Percy Snow becomes important when",
"The expertise of Percy Snow becomes important when",
"Percy Snow is incredible at",
"The expertise of Percy Snow becomes important when",
"The expertise of Percy Snow becomes important when",
"Percy Snow is incredible at"
]
}
Figure 14: A sample of the COUNTER FACT dataset.
21